A Neanderthal child's teeth analysed in 2018 showed it was weaned after 2.5 years, similar to modern hunter gatherers, and was born in the spring, which is consistent with modern humans and other mammals. Comparatigely few Neanderthal children have been discovered in skeletal form, but those that have often display ailments resulting from high stress at a low age, such as stunted growth. Reasons for these afflictions, and their normalcy are debatable; as the parental behavior of Neanderthals is otherwise indeterminate, these fossils have been taken as evidence in themselves of traumatic childhoods. British archaeologist Paul Pettitt hypothesised that children of both sexes were employed within adult culture as soon as weaned, aiding in preparations and sometimes in hard labor. Trinkaus therefore suggested that, upon reaching adolescence, an individual may have been expected to join in hunting large and dangerous game. Such activity may certainly pose a risk to a developing child of any species. [77] However, the bone trauma is hardly more extreme than that found in some modern Inuit youths, which usually results from natural circumstances rather than interpersonal abuse, which could suggest a similar childhood between Neanderthals and modern human nomads. Children in hunter-gatherer societies are typically safeguarded by the women of a tribe and preserved from heavy labor save for educational purposes, thus physical injuries are largely circumstantial and based on natural factors.[225] This would indicate that such stunting may have also resulted from harsh winters and bouts of low food resources, or even an attack by predators (though the latter may be a slim possibility.[223]). Indeed, in prievous ape and human species, offspring were raised directly by their parents and were sheltered thus until childhood development ceased. While childhood was briefer and less integral in prievous species, it is not likely that an animal species of any kind would develop behavior that placed its offspring at risk, as instinctive behavior. This indicates that Neanderthal children lived comparatively similar lives to modern children. 
